Now, let's have a look at the route_model.h
file which is the header file for the route model class.
The route model class inherits from the model class
which is provided by the io 2d OpenStreetMap example.
Route model class has a subclass called
Node which inherits from the model struct also called Node.
The model struct node provided x and y coordinates and we extend if
that struct by also adding a pointer to the parent of the Node,
an h_value of the Node,
the g_value of the Node,
a boolean which tells whether the node has been
visited and that's useful for instance search,
and then a vector of node pointers called neighbors.
Each node has this vector of neighbors and that
will be populated with all of the neighbors of the node.
There's also a method called FindNeighbors which is what is going to populate
this vector once it's called and the distance method
which returns the distance from this node to any other node.
On lines 26 and 27,
there are two constructors,
a default constructor and a constructor that accepts an index,
a route model, and an existing model node.
We can use this to construct of RouteModel node from an existing model node.
The index is useful to keep track of the nodes and it
is also helpful to keep track of the model to which this node belongs.
Over on the right side,
we use a constructor list to initialize all of these to variables.
The node has some private variables index
and a private function called FindNeighbor which is
used in this FindNeighbors function
and also a pointer to the RouteModel to which this node belongs.
Down below this class node,
we see the RouteModel constructor which takes
an XML file which is the OpenStreetMap data.
There's a method called FindClosestNode which allows us to
find the closest node in the model given some x and y coordinates.
Here's a getter function which returns a vector of nodes.
So this vector is declared
down here and these are all of the nodes that are in the model and
a vector called path which we will use to store
the final path from the starting to ending
points and that path will be used for rendering later on.
There are some private variables down at the bottom
here and a private method called CreateNodeToRoadHashMap.
So this method creates a map from
nodes to the roads that they belong to and that's
useful when we want to find the neighboring node for a given node.
Here is the map itself and that's stored as node_to_road.
Then lastly, the private vector of all of the nodes.
Now, let's have a look at route_model.cpp which
contains all of the method definitions for the route model class.
At the beginning, we have a definition for the class constructor.
This class constructor and the constructor list calls
the model constructor with the XML data that is passed in.
This creates the model using the XML data and then the lines below iterate through
the nodes in that model and create RouteModel nodes for each
one of them and then store those RouteModel nodes in the m-Nodes vector.
So what we see here is that this model
nodes call is a getter function which gets all of the nodes that are stored in model.
Then for each of those nodes,
we call the RouteModel node constructor right here.
So we are using the counter as the index is passed in,
the model node to create the RouteModel node.
Then this which is the current RouteModel,
a pointer to the current RouteModel being passed in.
Emplace_back is much like push_back except emplace_back
returns a reference to the object that has just
been pushed on to the spectrum and emplace_back and
push_back function slightly differently and that push_back may create a temporary copy.
We could just as easily have used push_back in this case.
So after we push the node onto the m_Nodes vector,
we increment the counter.
Then in this class constructor,
we also call the CreateNodeToRoadHashMap which is defined below.
In CreateNodeToRoadHashMap, we want to create a map
from the index of each node to the road that it belongs to.
So first, we iterate through all of the roads.
So this Roads parentheses here gets all of the roads in the model.
Then we check that the road type is not a foot way.
So we would actually only want to include roads that we
can drive on that we'll be using for mapping.
Then we get the way that this road belongs to.
So this road.way is an index of
way and this way returns a vector of all the ways in the model.
So we take all the ways in the model,
we index by the way that this particular road belongs to,
and then we get all of the nodes that are on that way.
Then for each of those indices,
we check whether the index is already
in the HashMap and if that index is not in the HashMap,
we create an empty vector for that index and then we
push the road into that vector for that index.
So this creates a HashMap which maps
the indices to a vector of roads that that node belongs to.
So it's the indices of the nodes to the vector of roads that that index belongs to.
The next method is the Node FindNeighbor method which takes a vector of node indices as
an argument and it returns a pointer to
the closest_node in that vector to the current node.
So this is a method of node and it is called on
a current node and then passed to these node indices.
This works by iterating through each of
the node indices and it finds the node object that belongs to that node index.
So it does this by looking at the vector of nodes
and then using the index to get the correct node out.
So this is a node object.
Then this loop checks if the distance to that node is less than
the distance to the closest_node that we've already recorded.
If it is, it replaces
the closest_node with the current node and eventually returns to the closest_node.
The next method is the FindNeighbors method.
This method uses the index of the current node which is given
by this arrow index right here and
the node_to_road HashMap which
returns on the vector of roads that the current node belongs to.
Then for each of those roads,
we call FindNeighbor on the vector of nodes that belongs to that road.
This FindNeighbor produces a new neighbor and we
add the new neighbor to the back of the neighbors vector.
The last method definition is the definition for FindClosestNode.
So this takes a float x and y which we store as node input.
We set input.x to x and input.y to y.
We start out with a minimum distance and
a float distance and the index of the closest node so far.
Then we iterate over all roads in the model that are not of type Footway.
For each of those roads,
we find the way that the road belongs to with this and then we
find the indices of all the nodes on that way.
For each of those node indices,
we check the distance to the input node from that node index.
If the distance is less than our minimum distance,
we set the closest_index to the node_index then the minimum_distance to the distance.
Once we're done, we're able to return the nodes or the node given by the closest_index.